All right welcome back.
So in this video we're going to talk about two of the main important ways that Python represent numbers.
And you might be thinking isn't just a number a number.
What's the difference.
And in the real world a number is number one is number negative 20 is number.
Fifty seven point seven seven five is in number.
And in Python while those things are all numbers they are stored or represented differently.
And it all comes down to saving space in memory.
Remember that everything that we do whether it's numbers or words or more complex data it all gets turned
into ones and zeros and it's stored in memory.
And the thing is that a decimal number like we have on the right here 6.1 or 1 point 3 3 3 3 takes up
a lot more space or it potentially takes up a lot more space than a simple home number because let's
say let's take the number 0 and 1.
All right.
So if we're working with whole numbers there is one number or maximum of two numbers between 0 and 1
0.
And we have one but if we're talking about decimals all of a sudden there's an infinite number of numbers
between 0 and 1.
So Python has to account for that in memory it takes up a lot more space to kind of save room for any
potential decimals that could come after.
And Python won't store you know an infinite number of decimal points.
It does eventually start to lose accuracy but it's really generally not a problem unless you need extreme
precision.
So actually there are four data types of numbers.
There's another one called complex another one called long but it's really really rare that you would
need to know about that let alone use them.
The two important ones are integer and floating point.
OK.
So all comes down to space.
Now integers are whole numbers positive or negative 4:57 negative 10 negative three thousand nine million
whatever it is floating points in the other hand also positive or negative.
But they have decimals after them.
So even if it's a whole number like 1.0 if it has that point oh it's a floating point 6.1 1.3 333 all
floating points.
And you often hear people refer to them as floats.
Those people include me.
So when I say float just referring to numbers that are floating point that have decimals versus an integer
is a whole number.
So integers take up less space floating points take up more space.
OK so I'm going to hop over to my terminal.
I'm working in a directory that I made called numbers in math if you want to follow along with the exact
same way.
I'm not going to make a new file just yet.
I'm actually going to open up my Python 3 interpreter and we can do something really silly like just
type a number and it just gives us back the same number.
But what I want to show you is something a bit more advanced.
It's called a function.
We're not going to discuss it in this section so just ignore that question in your mind about what a
function is we will get there.
But there's a function called type and we give it a number or eventually we can give it other types
of data.
But for now we're working with numbers like nine and I hit enter in between those parentheses passing
the number and it will tell me hey that's an integer.
Don't worry about what this class thing is we'll get to that aswell.
And I can do the same thing but this time let's do 9.00 and it tells me that's a float.
Or we could do.
No no no no no no.
Nine point two that's a float.
Well nine nine nine nine without the Point two is in it.
OK.
So again don't worry about what a function is.
I just want to show you that there's a way to actually discern what type a number is.
So now that we've seen the two main types of numbers I want to mention that Python is not just a glorified
calculator.
It's not what this course is about but we can use it as one we can do simple math we can do one plus
one five minus three or you get really fancy and combine a couple of numbers and operators one flows
for minus two.
So I encourage you to play around just for a moment try some operations in the next video.
I'm going to talk about things like order of operations.
I'll show you a couple other operators.
But really quickly.
Let's do something like.
One plus three.
Now here's a question for you.
What happens when I do let's say one plus one point oh what's the result going to be.
And you can see we get 2.0.
So rather than just turning it into an integer if any part of the expression is a float the end result
will be a float.
All right.
So we can do things like add an integer like 20 and add 0.7 7:07 to it and we get 20 point 7 7 7.
I won't bore you with doing a bunch for math but the key thing I want you to take away here is that
when you do math with an integer and a float Python will give you a float back.
So I'll leave it at that for now.
Remember two types integers all numbers floats have decimal points and that's it.
Next up.
Let's do some simple math.